Hi everyone, let's get started.
Welcome to Introduction to go for
front end developers.
A major question that might
already be popping up in your
minds are why are we talking about
go which is a back end language for
a front end specific series of workshops.
And a little background,
I work on a really small team.
I work on a team of four developers,
two of which are on the back end team and
two of us are on the front end team.
And we are building a complex
full stack product.
My skill set and interests do
lie primarily in the front end.
But it's not uncommon for me to want
to make a PI of the back end code base,
explore a little bit about
how that is structured and
why my front end code is
interacting with it the way it is.
And building a familiarity with the back
end has been incredibly helpful for
me to understand why my code is
structured the way it is and
how to optimize that to interact
with the back end in a better way.
So for this talk, I want to talk a little
bit about the go back end language but
from a more front end perspective and kind
of talk about the nuances of what makes it
particularly interesting coming from
a dynamic language like JavaScript.
So a little bit about me.
My name is Brenda Martinson.
I live in Denver, Colorado.
I'm currently working for
a small company called hiring.io.
We are in the throes of building
a really complex product that is,
creating an open data platform for
commercial insurance.
And to do so we've had to change
between whether we're using node,
go, what our front end stack looks like.
And as we've been interacting with that,
being able to help contribute to some of
those refactoring sessions
has been really helpful.
Before that, I was working at Sendgrid,
where I was on a front end engineering
team, building a pretty complex UI
around drag and drop user interfaces.
And then our back end at that time
was a rails kind of monolith with
a go back end as well.
And then before that I was working as
an instructor at the Turing School of
Software and Design, writing primarily
the front end curriculum and
teaching some front end
instructional classes there.
But it also was a back end
heavy program at first.
So the kind of theme is that like even
though I do primarily work in front end at
no point in my career have I been
100% in that front end world.
And so having that understanding of how
the back end also comes into play has been
super helpful and
shapes a lot of what I do today.
If you haven't already, the repo will be
up in the right hand corner there for you.
It is on
github.com/MartinsonBJ/FCM-intro-to-go.
We're gonna talk a little bit
about installation first but
then down the road we will be doing
some exercises in the actual repo.
So if you clone it down,
you can kind of have some hands
on experience to the repo itself.
Brief introduction of what
today is gonna look like.
Let's talk about what go is, where it
came from, kind of why it's a thing.
We'll do installation setup, make sure
everyone's go on their machine up and
running successfully.
We'll talk about the basic syntax and
structure of the go language.
And then throughout the workshop today
we're gonna be building some really small
exercises and then towards the end,
we'll do a little bit more bigger picture
web server structures and stuff like that.
At the very end, we'll look at
concurrency, some multi threading and
then what go 2.0 and the recent
release of go 1.13 has to offer.
Also kind of as we're going through,
there's a lot of information
that's available on the slides.
And so here's kind of the layout of what
you're working with in the upper left hand
corner, it's kind of a breadcrumb series
of where we're at in the workshop,
what our category is,
what we're talking about.
In the upper right hand corner is
gonna be any files I'm referencing,
whether that's something for reference,
like a markdown file with notes or
some of the lecture notes.
And then anything in green
will be an actionable file.
Either file you can use
as an exercise file or
a website we'd like to visit to kind of
play around with something in the browser.
So brief history of go.
So go was developed in 2007 by a team
of developers working at Google
that were primarily
working in c plus plus.
Performance and scalability at that time
and go are hot topics as they are today.
And go or Google was in the throes of
kind of like scaling to be the giant
company it is today and the scalability
at the time was becoming a real struggle.
And it was difficult to
maintain the codebase.
And the developers were kind of like,
concerned about three primary factors
about what made their lives as
developers particularly pleasant.
So a few things that are really
important as you're developing code is,
do you have fast compile times?
How long does it take your code to reflect
something that you have just done?
How easy is it to develop
on a daily basis?
Are you happy working in
the language you are?
Are you kinda going crazy with
some of the nuances of it?
How does it feel?
And facts execution of build times
when you do finally wanna build and
compile your code and test it and run it,
how long is that feedback loop before
you know what you wanna do differently?
At the time, all three of those things
were hard to find in the same language.
You could get one, maybe two.
But all three was kind of like this
magical unicorn that didn't exist yet.
And so the developers were kind of like,
all right, we can do better,
whether we build our own language
that has all of these things in it.
So that's where go comes into play.
And what makes go a particularly
great language to work in
is it kind of fixes all those problems.
It has a really fast compile time.
And although it still has
a lot in common with C,
there's some of those similarities.
You'll see patterns and
behaviors of C throughout the go syntax.
It reduces a lot of the complexity and
boilerplate that makes C
particularly difficult to write in.
And then it does have
a really fast build time.
So that feedback loop of figuring out what
your application needs to do differently,
happens pretty quickly, which is great.
And the way it does this is few different
ways that we'll talk
about throughout today.
One of which is it maintains
a lightweight type system similar to Cs.
It manages multi threading and
asynchronous behavior through concurrency
using tools like go routines and
sync packages and
stuff we'll talk about later today.
It is an automatically,
the garbage collection is automatic.
So you as a developer don't
have to worry about opening any
allocated memory as you're coding.
The dependency library and convention are
on syntax and kinda what the right way to
write go is is pretty consistent and
well maintained by the community.
So it takes a lot of the mental
effort out of how do you feel today?
Do you wanna write semicolons or
no semicolons?
There's a much more strict rules
around that type of behavior.